Get in shape: Losing weight is the top resolution for Americans, and combined with “exercise more” and “stay fit and healthy” it is something that over a third of the population wishes to achieve. It’s easy enough to start an exercise and diet program, but the trick is to find a decent one that will give you steady results and will be easy to stick to in the long run. Have a look at these tricks, hacks, exercises and mistakes to avoid to make the best our of your resolution.
Start eating healthier food, and less food overall: This is usually an extension of the previous resolution. Switching to a healthier diet can be incredibly tricky when we are surrounded by cheap junk food. However, with a good amount of determination and some basic tips you can slowly develop healthier eating habits. Learn to control emotional eating, be aware of reasons for diets to fail, make use of these tricks and have a look at these awesome and healthy recipes.
Stop procrastinating: The biggest barrier that keeps most people from reaching their goals is the desire to relax and do something fun instead of working hard. Once you get used to procrastinating it’s difficult to snap yourself out of it, so you’ll need to put in a lot of work to change this bad habit. There are many useful tips out there to find your way to stop procrastinating. There are also tools which can help you achieve this task.
Improve your concentration and mental skills: People have been trying to find ways to improve their focus and cognitive capacities for thousands of years, and most ancient civilizations had some combination of mental exercise and herbal medicine to help them reach this goal. Today we can use anything from apps to ancient meditation techniques to boost concentration and hone our mental skills. If you go through with this, you will be able to control your mood, learn faster and have an easier time solving problems.
Meet new people: When we get stuck in a rut, we usually end up staying at home most of the time, missing out on a lot of interesting opportunities for networking and having fun. Meeting new people can be beneficial to your mental well-being and help your career, so don’t be afraid to get out there and make some friends. Overcome your shyness, get some knowledge and go and get to know new and interesting people.
Become more active: Some people don’t really have a big weight problem, and they even get some exercise a few times a week, but they just sit around the most of the time at home and at work, which can have a negative effect on their posture and health. In that case, all you need is to find ways of moving around more throughout the day instead of staying hunched over the computer. It’s even more fun if you share your activity with friends and family.
Become more confident and take some chances: If you are confident other people notice it, and it is much easier to have your opinions heard, ask people out on dates and get ahead at work. A good dose of self-confidence will help you lead a much happier life overall. Don’t hesitate to get some input on ways to boost your confidence.
Earn more money: Even billionaires are always looking for ways to earn more money, and we common folk can definitely use an additional source of income to make life a bit more comfortable. Fortunately there are plenty of options available, like having sidejobs, working as a freelancer or using the internet to your advantage.
Become more polite: Good manners have always been an important part of a civilized society. They make it easier to connect with others, avoid offending people and will ensure that others perceive you as a good and trustworthy person. So know the etiquette, be prepared or other manners in other countries, deal with rude people in the right way and learn how to say no.
Reduce stress: They say that stress is one of the biggest killers out there, and it can have a very destructive effect on your relationships as well as your health. It may be an unavoidable side effect of our hectic modern lifestyles, but it can be effectively managed with the help of useful, unconventional and easy to practice tricks for stress management.
Learn to be happier with your life: Even those that are in decent shape, make a good living and have stress under control can still be unhappy. It takes time and patience to learn how to find joy in the little things and not to let problems bring you down.
Get more quality sleep: With big TV’s, computers, smartphones, tablets and all sorts of gadgets with glowing lights and beeping alerts, it can be hard to get enough sleep at night. You should be gunning for at least 8 hours of sleep a night, and there are fairly simple ways to achieve this number if you make use of science and everday hacks.
Give up cigarettes: A bit of bad habit that a lot of people don’t know how to kick, smoking will not only endanger your health, but can burn a hole in your wallet as well. Just be prepared to dedicate a lot of will power to giving up cigarettes once and for all.
Watch less TV: The average person wastes a lot of time in front of the TV, time that could have been better spent developing skills, learning or keeping your body active. Once you manage to cut down on TV time, you will realize just how long and productive a day can really be.
Read more: Books are an excellent way to gain a lot of knowledge on a huge variety of topics, and are also a great exercise for your brain. It’s not that difficult to go through 20 or more books in a year – you only need to make it a habit, discover your type of books and find a bit of time for reading here and there.
Find a significant other: We all need someone to hold at night, talk to and share our deepest secrets with, but finding the right person is a matter of trial and error. We need to go out and get to know a bunch of potential partners before we can find the one that we can get along with really well. Get inspired on your way towards love by these tips on the best places to meet people, asking someone out, and having an amazing and original first date.
Have better sex: Any healthy relationship requires a good deal of intimacy, and sex can actually help keep us mentally and physically healthy. The idea is to make it a fun and rewarding experience, and this is something that comes with practice and exercise.
Become tidier: There are a lot of slobs out there who can’t really get their stuff organized, and a cluttered desk or chaotic home will negatively affect your productivity and even your mood, so it helps to clear the clutter, clean your house and lead a tidier and more organized life.
Learn how to dress with style: The way you dress can say a lot about you, and wearing the right clothes can make you seem powerful and confident, which in turn can help you land a job, get promoted, and catch the eye of a lovely guy or girl. No matter if you’re male or female, know the dresscode and live with style.
Spend more time with the people that matter: There is just too little time in this life for us to waste it on insincere, duplicitous and toxic people. We should focus on the people who we care about deeply and who care about us, as this is the best way to stay happy.
Start drinking in moderation or quit drinking altogether: While it is completely safe and healthy to drink one or two servings of an alcoholic beverage of your choice per day, not a lot of people can say that they can follow this rule effectively. Getting your drinking under control has plenty of benefits, but it can be a difficult process.
Get out of debt: You can’t really move forward in life if you are weighed down by debt. The road to financial freedom is a rocky one, but it is definitely manageable with a bit of planning and self-restraint. Take a look at these strategies and methods and pay off your debt. You won’t believe how good it will feel.
Start saving money: Once you have your debt under control, it’s time to start putting some money aside. A rainy day fund and some extra money that can go towards traveling abroad, fixing up the house or buying a new car are a welcome change of pace. Make use of these hacks and apps to save money efficiently.
Learn a new language: Not only will learning a new language help improve your communication skills, it will also look great on your resume and possibly open up some doors for you. These days there are plenty of resources that allow you to learn a language for free and in your spare time.
Volunteer and give more to charity: To devote your time and energy to helping those in need is a noble gesture and a reward in itself, but it is also an opportunity to meet new people, learn new skills and boost your resume. Here’s how you can find time to volunteer in your busy life.
Pick up useful skills or fun hobbies: Just sitting around all day won’t get you anywhere. It is much better to use your free time in a constructive manner and pick up new skills while having fun at the same time. The Future-You will be glad that you did. No matter if you’re interested in communication skills or sports, find out how to learn new skills and hobbies in a short time.
Learn to let go of grudges and avoid moping: Times can be hard, and it may take a lot to overcome adversity, but sitting around and moping about it is just counterproductive. If you have a big fight with someone and fall out or get hurt over a small issue, you will only lose a friend or life partner and remain sad and bitter. Forgiveness is a much healthier way to deal with issues that should be left in the past.
Adopt a cute pet: There are tons of animal lovers out there that would be great at caring for a pet, but they often overthink things, while some people just rush out and get a pet without understanding the responsibility involved. Be sure you know what you are in for and find a pet that fits your living conditions and lifestyle.
Become more organized: It doesn’t matter how much time you have on your hands if you can’t manage it properly – you’ll just spend most of the day running around aimlessly. When you get organized there will suddenly be more time to spare and things will start falling into place. Make it a habit, get help from apps and tools and enjoy your newly found leisure-time.
Travel more and see the world: You’ll need to have your finances in order, get the right equipment and invest some time and effort before you consider traveling across the globe, but there are ways of experiencing different cultures and visiting faraway places even on a tighter budget.
Learn to cook: Cooking is one of the essential skill that every man and woman should possess. It allows you to save money, eat the food you love just the way you like it and impress dates with lovely meals shared under candlelight. If you go through useful tips, keep your kitchen clean and avoid common mistakes, nothing stands between you an your 3-course-meal.
Go see your doctor more often: Staying healthy should be your top priority, but many people seem frighten of doctors and don’t go to the hospital nearly as often as they should, often waiting for their condition to significantly worsen. Regular checkups are a must, no matter how healthy you feel at the moment.
Reinvent yourself: If you don’t feel quite happy no matter what you do, it is perhaps time to make some serious changes in your life. Reinventing yourself can give you a whole new perspective on life and take you in directions you may never have dreamed were possible.
Stop being late all the time: Punctuality is a virtue that is held in high regard in our society. Being on time is a mark of a true professional, a dependable friend and caring partner, so it is a good idea to pick up a few tricks that can help you stay on time.
Learn how to be more self-reliant: Technology, a relatively decent government and corporations offering cheap ready-to-eat food and all manner of useful tools – these things have made us somewhat spoiled, and we often get well into adulthood without having what it takes to be independent and self-reliant. These skills are important to learn.
Turn your hobby into a career: If we could all manage to marry fun and productivity, and be able to make money doing what we love, we’d be a much more content and well-balanced society. This may not always be possible, but there are cases where a hobby can be turned into a lucrative career.
Get over an ex: It may be better to have loved and lost, than to never have loved, but it still hurts like crazy. Healing a broken heart is a process that takes time, but there are ways  and tricks to make it through this difficult time without too much pain.
Learn to control your emotions: Uncontrolled anger can get you into a lot of trouble, but things like jealousy and pride are destructive in all circumstances. Gaining control over your feelings allows you to keep a level head and think more rationally, even during emotionally charged conflict situations.
Start being more responsible: A big part of growing up into a mature adult is the ability to think before making a decision. It is important to take responsibility for ones actions and avoid blaming everything on someone else, just as it is important to protect your family and provide for them.
Learn more about art, music, culture etc.: The best way to fit in when talking to a variety of people from different backgrounds is to have a well-rounded education. Topics like art, music, history and culture often baffle people, but they can be easy to comprehend if you spend enough time learning about them using helpful websites and online courses.
Spend less time on social media: Some people might not spend hours in front of the TV, or playing video games, but social media has become a serious addiction among a wide range of demographics. It’s fine to stay in touch with friends and family, but if you consistently spend more than an hour every day on social media, it’s time to make a change.
Learn how to defend yourself: Being able to ensure your own safety, and the safety of those you love, is a very important skillset to have. It’s not all about groin kicks and palm strikes, however. You need to learn how to conduct yourself and what kind of behavior to look out for in others.
Become more romantic: Romance is often the first casualty in longer, more serious relationships, but it doesn’t have to wither away. A few romantic gestures here and there can keep the passion going for decades. It will be fun, even if you’re not the romantic type.
Start remembering important dates: Speaking about romance and keeping a serious relationship fun, you don’t want to keep forgetting birthdays, anniversaries and other important dates. There are plenty of memory tricks that take very little time to master, so you’ll never forget another date again.
Become more social: Being a man, or woman, about town has its perks. You get to have fun, meet new people and find out interesting things, but you can also develop leadership skills and learn to work in a team. Even if you are an introvert  or very shy and feel uncomfortable talking to others, there are ways to become a fairly active member of a community.
Start being more creative: There are times when we get mentally fatigued and our creativity just goes out the window. This is particularly bad if your job or hobby depends on you coming up with fresh ideas and thinking outside the box. As with anything else, there are many ressources that help you spark your creativity in a number of different ways.
Start expressing yourself artistically: While some of us are more logical, with a scientific mind, most people still have a bit of a creative spark in them. Expressing yourself in some creative artistic way is a great form of stress relief and helps keep your mind sharp. Some of these activities will also help you stay active and burn some calories. So go in the arts, write, craft, make DIYprojects – whatever makes your soul free.
Face your fears and insecurities: You will find this particular point masked beneath other New Year’s resolutions, but fear and insecurity are often the cause of several problems that we want to address. You need to think of it as surviving and controlling your fear rather than overcoming it, and it will enable you to shed off a lot of the insecurities that you have.
Start writing a book/journal: You’d be surprised to know just how many people out there have an interesting story to tell, but lack the confidence and skill to write everything down. Even if it is just a few random thoughts scribbled daily in a journal, you shouldn’t be afraid to give writing a go with a few tips and tricks.
Stick to the good healthy habits you’ve developed: The last, and most important point to mention is that all the positive changes you make have to be permanent. You will need to work on sticking with the good habits you have adopted, until they just become a natural part of who you are. That is how you achieve true self-improvement.
Carve Out Me Time: This could mean taking singing classes to get over the fear of performing in front of others, for example. Especially if you feel like you have tons of commitments that aren’t always for you, carve out some solid "me" time in the year ahead by trying a new hobby—or resurrecting an old one—such as cooking, making art, or reading a good book. 
Make New Friends: Okay, we admit that it's not always easy to make new friends (especially in your 30s), but there’s no reason to stop trying. Join a local social group on Meetup, or volunteer your time to an organization in need—others may also be trying to meet new people, too, which can alleviate some of the pressure.
Create A Budget: While coming up with a budget isn't necessarily the most fun thing to do (unless you're a numbers person), not knowing where your cash has gone, and being unable to cover your monthly expenses, is even less so. Use an online management tool or app, such as Mint and Clarity Money, or use a spreadsheet template to help set short- and long-term goals. Budgeting for social gatherings and incidentals (unexpected dinners out, new clothes, a locksmith's visit) means you won't have to change old habits too much.
Foster New Work: Even if you’re not looking for a new job right now, it’s still wise to keep sharp in case you see a posting that interests you. Revisit old profile pics and update them, edit and add skills to your résumé, network, subscribe to job alerts, and create an online folder where everything job-related is kept in one place. Keep your professional standing in good health now, and be well prepared to nail any job application and interview.
Declutter: A clean home is a happy home; quell anxiety, overwhelm, and stress by tidying up and decluttering everything around you. Tackle the refrigerator, cabinets, and messy drawers, desks, and closets. Toss everything you haven't used in six months, donate what you don't love or need, and get ready to celebrate the new year with new clarity and peace of mind.
Manage Stress: If left unchecked, stress and anxiety can go unnoticed for some time, and later manifest themselves in physical and emotional ways. Instead of waiting for them to rear their ugly heads, learn stress management and reduction techniques now. Some meditate, others practice yoga, and many exercise to combat stress.
Be Happy: Many people spend a good portion of their lives saying, “I’ll be happy when...” Don't wait to be, or get, happy. Instead, keep healthy habits, focus on staying positive, practice gratitude, and let go of too-stringent or unattainable ambitions while acknowledging there may still be achievable goals you'd like to attain during the upcoming year.
Catch Up With Family: Take time to appreciate loved ones via a simple phone call, even if they live just down the street. Check in with those close to you, especially older relatives, if only to say you love them and are grateful for their presence in your life. Not only will it make a sister's, grandparents', or cousin's day, strong family ties contribute to happiness and physical health. 
Stop The FOMO: Social media, huge event calendars, and self-imposed guilt only add to one's FOMO, aka Fear of Missing Out. But who wants to start the year off feeling miserable, less connected to others, and stressed out? This year, look within and realize that while there's always something going on, you can't do everything and be everywhere all the time. (How exhausting.) Take some "me" time to relax and recharge instead of dragging yourself out to a rager for the fourth time this week. Or, if you're too good at saying no, start saying yes to people who ask you to do things—even if you don't think you'll have fun.
Nurture True Friendships: Having many acquaintances is nice until you realize that a super-small portion of them will have your back through thick and thin. Resolve to spend your precious energy on, and free time with, only those you care most deeply about—and those who reciprocate. True friendships are about quality, not quantity.
Relish Your S.O.: It's a worthwhile New Year's resolution that keeps on giving all year long. (Sending love notes works, too) Reserve time on your calendar for several date nights per month—and don't be too attached to what you wind up doing. Remember that staying home can be just as good (if not better) than going out.
Give Back: Whether you give back once or repeatedly, taking time to volunteer, practicing random acts of kindness, and donating to charity organizations empowers us and opens us up to new experiences and opportunities. Research viable non-profits that align with skills and/or your spirit of giving, and plan to pay it forward, this year and the next.
Satisfy Your Wanderlust: Stop waiting for the "perfect time" to take a trip. Pick a destination and get there in the year ahead. Whether it’s a staycation, solo excursion, girls’ trip, or romantic getaway, you’ll come back refreshed and toting meaningful memories you won't soon forget.
Prioritize Health: This year, make health a priority: Grab a calendar and schedule doctor's appointments—including a physical, pap smear, dermatologist's visit—and at least two teeth cleanings. Need help finding a specialist? Zocdoc helps you find doctors within your health plan, book (and stay on top of) appointments, submit insurance claims, and fill prescriptions.
Find A Side Hustle: Whether it’s to earn extra cash or to follow a passion that your day job doesn't satisfy, taking a second job, aka side hustle, could be a great way to indulge your deeper, more fulfilling interests. At the very least, you’ll learn more about work/life balance and develop some pretty major time management skills.
Seek Culture: Troll museum and gallery websites to learn about upcoming art exhibitions, score tickets to a play or ballet, take in an orchestral performance, and over the course of next year, teach yourself to appreciate the finer things in life. Cultural activities inspire creativity and teach you open-mindedness and tolerance—something we all can get behind.
Shun Social Media: Too much social media can be a bad thing—especially when you start comparing your real life to someone’s seemingly picture-perfect online life. So plan to take a step back this upcoming year, whether spending a day (or more) social media-free or simply reducing the number of times you check your apps in any one day.
End Procrastination: Mark Twain had it right when he opined, "Never put off until tomorrow what you can do today." Begin by taking a few minutes to make a list of the things you were going to do tomorrow—and yes, do at least one of those things today. And start imagining how you'll feel if you actually tackled all the stuff you've been putting off. Make a New Year's resolution to stop procrastinating, whether it's vowing to have those conversations you've been avoiding, doing laundry on a more regular basis, or clearing your email inbox.
Be Thankful: All successful people practice gratitude to feel healthier, happier, and more at peace with themselves—and they do so daily. Fostering gratitude means writing down a few things you're thankful for—and why. You could also begin your days by vocalizing what you’re grateful for or meditate on your gratitudes in silence. Cultivating this habit in the new year can even help you sleep better and be kinder to others, according to The New York Times writer, John Tierney, who researched the "attitude of gratitude," back in 2011.
Spread Kindness: There's actually scientific evidence that being kind makes you feel calmer, healthier, and happier—and it's also contagious. Make the world a better place by resolving to do one kind thing (or more!) for a stranger every day or month. Random acts of kindness can include buying coffee for the person waiting in line behind you or paying someone a nice compliment. To help make it a daily practice, download a free Kindness Calendar from RandomActsofKindness.org, a nonprofit that invests its resources into making kindness the norm in schools, workplaces, and beyond.
Try A New Workout: Getting stuck in an exercise rut can be the reason we stop making it a regular part of our lives. This upcoming year, make it a habit to try a new routine at the gym or one you’ve seen on ClassPass. Worst-case scenario? You didn’t love it—but you still got your heart rate up.
Accept Change: In life, change is one of the only constants. Learning to accept it can be difficult, especially if you're change-averse. Remember that change is what allows us to grow and become more comfortable with being uncomfortable. Make a resolution to embrace the unknown and think more positively about any changes that occur.
Remember Important Dates: Have you ever found yourself saying, "I'm awful at remembering birthdays"? If so, make a concerted effort to acknowledge other peoples' milestones as you would your own. Anniversaries, promotions, births—anything you yourself would celebrate—are all fair game. Record special dates inside the free Google Calendar and Countdown+ Event Reminders Lite apps. Once you're reminded, call, send a sweet text, or mail a card. (And yes, there are apps that even do that for you, too.)
Drink More Water: Healthy adult females and males should drink roughly 11 cups and 13 cups, respectively, of water every day. If you're way under this amount (congrats if you're already on track), start drinking more water in the new year. If you’re not a huge fan of plain H20, infuse it with cucumber and/or fruits and herbs for added health benefits and great taste.
Live Productively: There are only 24 hours in a day, so spend the new year maximizing the number of things you're able to get done: Work on developing your time management skills, research productivity hacks and apps, and turn off that phone.
Treat Yourself Kindly: Mistakes and bad days are both inevitable. If you find you're apt to browbeat, rather than show yourself kindness, spend the next year working to reverse this negative habit—it only breeds anxiety and depression. Practicing mindfulness, regular exercise, healthy eating, and ample sleep all help to foster self-compassion.
Dream Bigger: Reflect on your current dreams and aspirations. Now ask yourself if they're truly as big as they can be. Create your next, positive life phase by training yourself to think beyond what you imagine you can achieve. Cast doubt aside, concentrate only on what you love and that which makes you most fulfilled, and open yourself up to new possibilities in the coming year.
Start Meditating: Meditating has nothing to do with religion or philosophy and everything to do with cultivating a healthy mindset and reducing stress. And experts say meditation is a lifesaver, especially when you're undergoing trying times. Start the new year off right by setting time aside to meditate each day; apps like Headspace, Calm, and Buddhify can help.
Cook: While takeout is super-convenient, it's not that affordable or healthy. Cooking meals yourself means you'll know exactly what's in them, and whether ingredients are fresh (and healthful). Make a New Year's resolution to cook more, or learn how, and save some major cash in the process.
Follow A Skincare Routine: Glowy skin doesn't just appear overnight—it's the result of years of proper care. This year, work with a dermatologist or skin expert to create a custom skincare routine—or identify your skin type and find the products that work best.
Conquer A Fear: What things do you typically avoid like the plague? Whether you loathe speaking in public, detest snakes and spiders, or you're scared of some imaginary tragedy that has yet to happen, fear isn't something to hold onto—especially since it will always return and prevent you from living your best life. This year, resolve to face fear head-on and release yourself from its choking grasp.
Cultivate Compassion: We never really know what’s going on in someone else's life. So before you get mad at a friend for canceling plans or mutter under your breath when a stranger does something to annoy you, teach yourself to pause and summon some compassion before huffing and puffing. (And remember that it's probably not about you.)
Read: For adults, reading books is crucial to our self-development. But whenever we get busy, that good book is often the first thing we neglect in favor of more pressing tasks. This year, make a list of your must-read titles—and vow to finish them all. And speaking of reading...
Commute Productively: If you're lucky enough to work from home, congrats. But if you're like the rest of the U.S. workforce, you're spending an average of 4.35 hours a week and over 200 hours (that's nearly nine whole days) a year commuting to and from work. Instead of letting precious time go to waste, listen to audiobooks and podcasts to boost your productivity while improving your overall experience.
Become More Decisive: Nobody's perfect, and not every decision can be, either. This year, stop over-analyzing everything. Instead, commit to end the habit of indecision and spend less time second-guessing yourself.
Channel Your Inner Child: Playfulness is grossly underrated. Especially if you have a particularly draining day job, resolve to make time for play. Adults who play games better maintain their social well being, hone their cognitive functions, and even keep platonic and romantic partnerships healthier than those that don't regularly engage in fun activities.
Maintain Movement: Keeping it moving doesn't necessarily mean you have to sweat through a high-intensity Tabata workout (but that works, too). Rather, it simply suggests one should be mobile—not sedentary—to get that blood flowing every single day. Moving your body on a daily basis boosts endurance and cardiovascular health, and is even great for your mind. Next year, vow to increase movement by walking rather than driving somewhere, for example, and try to hit 10,000 steps a day. Bottom line: Increase your physical activity and you'll experience obvious health benefits.
Sleep Better: It’s not just how long you sleep but also the quality of your rest. Vow to develop better sleep hygiene so the z’s you catch aren't hindering your health but duly preparing you for the day ahead.
Give Up A Vice: While smoking, drinking, and eating to excess are the usual suspects, other bad habits (running from your problems, self-sabotaging, constant worrying) can fly under the radar, and rob you of your happiness just the same. Resolve to carve out time to identify and understand your bad habits, whatever they are, and finally break them for good.
Fly Solo: Although humans are social beings, learning to be, and do things, alone isn't always second-nature. It's perfectly okay to keep yourself company and forego socializing to get familiar with numero uno. Flying solo, whether it's to see a movie, dine out, or go on vacation, helps build independence and self-confidence. This year, try forcing yourself out of your comfort zone and do something you wouldn't normally do without your squad in tow.
Care For Something: Sure, we all need to practice self-care to live our best lives, but what about nurturing something other than yourself? If you're not currently the parent of a plant, pet, or some other living thing, then spend the upcoming year trying it out. A 2016 study revealed that taking care of pets, for example, decreases anxiety, promotes a sense of safety, and increases confidence. According to Psychology Today, certain houseplants, too, have been shown to improve well-being, raise productivity, and lower blood pressure.
Keep In Touch: These days, not everyone stays in the same place for long. When friends and loved ones move to faraway places, or even relatively nearby, it can be unsettling and sad. During the next year, especially if you're due for a catch-up, make better efforts to stay in touch. Now, modern technology (Talky, Viber, Skype, and WhatsApp) makes it easy to video chat one-on-one to simulate an "I'm just next door" feeling.
Stay Present: According to a 2010 study by Harvard University, we spend nearly half of our lives not living in the present moment. (Obviously, being present can be a herculean task for even the most woke individuals.) So resolve to slow down this year, practice mindfulness, and go easy on the multitasking, or you could miss some amazing things happening right in front of you.
Develop An Abundance Mindset: Too often, life becomes a "keeping up with the Joneses" race to the finish. But why put yourself under undue pressure? Vow to switch your current state of scarcity to one of abundance. Here's what we mean: In Steven R. Covey's 1989 book, "The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People," the author talks about "abundance mentality" (believing there is plenty for everyone), which is contrasted with "scarcity" (everyone's fighting over what they need). Developing a sense of abundance enables us to feel plentiful, creative, and inspired—rather than angry, overwhelmed, and powerless.
Learn Patience: Yes, patience is a virtue, but it's one that can be notoriously difficult to foster and maintain, but science says that waiting for things only makes us happier. So take the next year to learn how to be patient with yourself and others. For starters, work to identify your triggers, know why they make you impatient, and practice some deep breathing.
Quit Apologizing: A lot of us (women especially) have the habit of apologizing for passively uttering "I'm sorry," even when we haven't made an error and/or when things aren't our fault. This year, learn to save your sorry's for when they’re absolutely necessary—and for whenever you really mean it.
Practice Optimism: Pessimism is so over; Make a New Year's resolution to always see the light at the end of the tunnel. If you're not particularly good at being optimistic, whether due to inherited pessimism (yes, it's a thing), past hurts, or just a general malaise regarding the future, then good news: You can actually train your brain to adopt a "glass-half-full" outlook to better cope during, and after, times of hardship.
Get Yourself Seen: The existential concept of "being seen" basically enables one to harness the vulnerability in exposing our true selves to others in order to foster greater self-confidence. Shed that hard outer shell and instead, try letting friends and loved ones "in" by sharing intimate (not necessarily painful, although that's allowed) details of your life. You'll be surprised to find that many others have had the same experiences, and in turn, they'll feel comfortable sharing more of themselves with you, too.
Love Yourself Unconditionally: Loving yourself just as you are, without restrictions (and not for who you will become one day) is challenging for most people. Resolve to love yourself this year and beyond, by practicing self-care, healing old wounds, exiting toxic relationships, forgiving yourself for mistakes and indiscretions (perceived or otherwise), and accepting yourself in the here and now.
Start a Meditation Practice: There are scientific studies that show the many benefits of meditating. To name just a few, meditating helps to improve your mood, it reduces stress, it lessens anxiety, and it even increases your brain’s grey matter — which is involved in muscle control, sensory perception, decision making, and self-control. In addition, once you get the hang of it, meditating is easy to do.
Learn Something New Each Day: Set the resolution to learn something new every day in order to have a better understanding of the world and how it works. Fortunately, the internet makes it incredibly easy to learn new things. Here are three sites you can try: Subscribe to Wikipedia’s Featured Article mailing list – you’ll receive an email each morning containing Wikipedia’s featured article for that day. Watch a CrashCourse video on YouTube. CrashCourse is an educational YouTube channel started by the Green brothers, Hank Green and John Green. Each video is about 15 minutes long and they cover subjects such as literature, biology, history, economics, and so on.  The cherry on top is that the videos are fun to watch. Watch a TED Talk every morning while you eat breakfast. Here are the 20 Best Ted Talks to get you started.
Pick Up a Hobby: Did you know that having a hobby is good for you? Hobbies can lower your stress levels, boost your brain power, improve your ability to focus, and more. Therefore, in 2020, start a new hobby. If you’re looking for ideas for hobbies to try, here are 16 Hobbies That Will Improve Your Quality of Life.
Play More: Play is an important source of relaxation and stimulation for adults. In addition, it can make you more creative and productive. Bring more play into your life by making it a New Year’s resolution. In case it’s been so long since you allowed yourself to play that you’ve forgotten how, here are 10 Ways to Play More and Have More Fun As an Adult.
Eat Fewer Calories: There are many reasons why most of us should set a resolution of eating fewer calories. The most obvious reason is to lose weight. After all, carrying excess weight puts us at a greater risk of a whole range of serious health problems, including heart disease, diabetes, and some cancers. With all of the contradictory information out there on what to eat, sometimes it’s hard to decide what to do when you want to lose weight. I try to keep things simple. When I want to lose weight, I just eat less. I recommend you do the same. If you gained weight in 2019, resolve to eat smaller portions in 2020. In addition, as I wrote in my post 17 Ways to Slow Down Aging and Live Longer, people eating a restricted diet live longer and endure fewer age-related diseases. Try eating until you’re satisfied, instead of full. Also, eat more slowly to allow your body to send you cues about fullness. Other reasons for eating less are ethical–that is, social justice, animal rights issues, and environmental concerns–but we won’t go into those here.
Write a Business Plan: Make 2020 the year you stop thinking about starting a business and you start taking action –it’s OK if it’s a small business on the side. The first step to take is to write a business plan. Once you get your ideas down on paper, you’ll be that much more motivated to turn those ideas into reality.
Move More: It doesn’t matter what you choose to do: join a sports team; get a pedometer and take at least 10,000 steps a day; get up every 20 minutes and stretch; or join a dance class. Just move! Living a sedentary life dumbs you down, it makes it more likely that you’ll be overweight, and it puts you at a higher risk of depression. Think of the following quote from the movie “Madagascar“: “Move it nice and sweet and sassy, alright!”
Read More Books: I’ll definitely be reading lots of books in 2018, and I encourage you to do the same. If you need some convincing on this one, here are 13 Ways Reading Will Improve Your Life. This year, I’m reading the 12 most important books of Russian literature. In fact, I created a 365-Day project for reading Tolstoy’s “War and Peace”–which is a book of prodigious length (roughly 1300 pages long).
Be  More Grateful: If you haven’t climbed aboard the gratitude bandwagon yet, this is the year to do it. There are studies that show that gratitude can make you 25% happier. Think about that for a second: you can be 25% happier simply by taking the time to count your blessings and think of all the good things in you life! Being grateful will also help you to overcome adversity, improve the quality of your sleep, and allow you to get along better with others. For next year, resolve to be more grateful. Here are some gratitude exercises to get you started.
Stop Procrastinating: If you didn’t achieve your goals this year, procrastination was the likely culprit. Make 2018 the year you stop procrastinating and start getting things done. This will help you to ensure that you won’t be sitting there at the end of next year wondering why you never got around to working on your goals.
Set Aside On-Hour-A-Day to Achieve Your Dreams: Stop telling yourself that you simply don’t have the time to work on your dreams. Whatever your dreams are–whether it’s to make more money so you can redecorate your home, learn to play an instrument, have a positive impact on the world, and so on–you can accomplish those dreams in just one-hour-a-day. If you devote one-hour-a-day to achieving your most important dream in 2020, by the end of the year you’ll have devoted 365 hours to that dream. Not bad!
Spend More Time In Nature: Humans were not made to be cooped up inside all day. Spending time in nature makes you happier, it boosts your immune system, and it even makes you more creative. Resolve that next year you’ll be spending more time outside (and just opening the windows more often doesn’t count).
Start Doing Planks Every Day: Doing plank exercises every day is a great way to strengthen your core. This article on Lifehack will show you how to do a plank, and it also includes an easy five-minute plank routine you can try. (Doing planks every day is on my list of resolutions for 2020, by the way.)
Enjoy the Little Things: Living life to the fullest doesn’t just mean setting big goals like going bungee jumping or learning to scuba dive. It also includes learning to enjoy the little things. That is, learning to appreciate life’s simple pleasures, such as the following: Going outside at night to look at the stars. Going to a pet shop to “ooh” and “aah” at the puppies and kittens. Walking barefoot in the grass. If you want more ideas, here are 50 Simple Ways to Celebrate and Enjoy Life. Include as many of these as you can in your 2018 to-do list.
Learn a New Skill: What have you always wanted to learn to do? Do you want to learn to play an instrument, code, knit, whittle? The possibilities are endless. Take advantage of all of the information that exists out there on how to learn new skills quickly and reach the end of 2020 with a couple of new skills under your belt.
Become More Confident: Confidence can be defined as your belief in your own abilities and in your capacity to get what you want.  In turn, the importance of confidence cannot be overstated. Confident people are happier, more relaxed, more likely to take chances, and more likely to succeed. Fortunately, there are ways to become more confident. These include giving yourself credit for what you do, cultivating your inner advocate, and taking consistent action toward the achievement of your goals. Make 2020 the year your confidence soars (but don’t get too cocky, because nobody likes that).
Be More Conscientious: In addition to being confident, you need to be conscientious. In fact, research shows that conscientiousness is the personality trait that is most often linked to success. You can start by being more punctual, becoming more organized, and being more thoughtful of others. Become more conscientious in the year that is to come.
Increase Your Charisma: Charisma isn’t just important in the political arena, but in all aspects of life. After all, let’s face it: charismatic people are more likely to get what they want. This includes everything from dates, to job promotions. Because charisma is a skill, and not a character trait, it can be learned. Make 2020 the year your charisma skyrockets.
Increase Your IQ: As I wrote in my post, How to Make Yourself Smarter In One-Hour-A-Day, new studies show that, contrary to popular belief, you can make yourself smarter. So, for 2020, why not set the resolution to raise your IQ? Enhancing your brain’s capacity to plan, reason, and solve problems is always a good thing.
Increase Your Emotional Intelligence (EQ): Daniel Goleman coined the term emotional intelligence in his 1996 bestselling book ,”Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ”. In a nutshell, emotional intelligence is a set of skills, including control of one’s impulses, self-motivation, empathy and social competence in interpersonal relationships. Set the resolution to increase your EQ, along with your IQ, and in 2020 you’ll be unstoppable.
Bring More Peace Into Your Life: I think I can safely say that we all want more peace in our lives. And by this I mean more inner peace, contentment, and serenity. Resolve to bring more peace into your life in the year that’s about to begin by accepting what is, practicing non-judgement, and teaching your mind to become still.
Be Kinder to Yourself: You may not be able to control how kind other people are to you, but you can always control how kind you are to yourself.  This upcoming year, set the resolution to believe in yourself, respect yourself, and treat yourself well.  As I wrote in my post, 17 Ways to Be Kind to Yourself, be a good companion to yourself. In fact, take it even further. Make 2018 the year you fall in love with yourself.
Create a Positive Attitude: Having a positive attitude opens your mind to new possibilities, it makes you more resilient, and it can even help you to live longer. Greet the New Year with a smile and resolve to stay positive, no matter what happens. Here are some tips and techniques that will help you.
Strengthen Your Personal Relationship: Don’t make all of your resolutions career or fitness oriented. Include that special someone in your life in your resolutions. In addition, let them know what you’ll be doing: “Hey, honey, guess what? We’re strengthening our relationship this year!” Here are 18 ideas on what to do.
Tame Your Monkey Mind: Life isn’t easy when there’s a monkey in your head. Specially if that monkey won’t stop screeching and jumping uncontrollably from one branch to another (and eating all those bananas). Make this the year you finally lasso that monkey and get it to sit still. How? Here are 10 Ways to Tame Your Monkey Mind and Stop Mental Chatter.
Keep a Journal: Journaling is a powerful life tool. It can help you to organize your thoughts, plan how to achieve your goals, and get in touch with your true feelings and wants. If you choose to add “Keep a Journal” to your New Year’s resolutions, here are two journaling techniques you can try.
Get Your Documents In Order: There are certain documents that every adult should have. This includes things such as a will, a durable power of attorney, and a letter of instruction. If your documents aren’t in order, make it a New Year’s Resolution to get them ready in the coming year.
Travel: Plan a vacation. The world is a beautiful place, and there are many things to see. Next year, visit a country you’ve always wanted to see. If you’re not sure how you would achieve a goal to travel in 2018, here’s what to do.
Volunteer: Set the resolution to do good for others in the upcoming year. After all, you won’t just be benefiting those you help; you’ll also be benefiting yourself. Volunteering can give you a sense of purpose, make your life more meaningful, increase your self-esteem, and make you happier. In 2020, get a helper’s high by volunteering.
Get Healthy / Lose Weight: Getting healthy and losing weight are two of the most common New Year’s resolution ideas. They’re also two resolutions that tend to fail. The key to sticking to this goal is to be clear about what you want to achieve. Instead of simply intending to get healthier, set specific goals, such as quitting fast food, soda or sweets, drinking less alcohol and more water or exercising 30 minutes a day.
Travel More: If you spent this year stuck at home, chances are that travelling may be on your list of resolutions. Instead of just leaving it as an empty promise to yourself, make it happen. Plan where you want to go, ask for the time off work, and decide on how much money you’ll need so you can start saving.
Quit Smoking: Quitting smoking can be one of the hardest resolutions to stick to. Luckily, there’s now plenty of help around to boost your commitment and keep you on track. Just remember, a setback does not mean you need to give up on your goal! Keep pushing through and stay focused on how much better your life will be without cigarettes.
Define My Style: The New Year is the perfect time to reaccess how you want to present yourself to the world and define your style. Whether you want to dress more sophisticated, be bolder with your clothing choices or take your look back to basics, now’s the time. Start with a big closet clean out and go from there.
Take Up a New Hobby / Learn a New Skill: Taking up a new hobby or learning a new skill can be a very rewarding resolution to undertake. Choose from a variety of options, such as painting, learning a musical instrument, cooking, writing, and reading more, to find your favourite activity.
Save More Money: By saving more money you can drastically improve your life in the long run. Be sure to set a budget and track exactly where you spend your money to stay on top of things. Then, transfer money each week or fortnight into your savings and watch it grow. The same techniques will work for getting out of debt too.
Improve Relationships: Setting a resolution to improve the relationships in your life can make you feel more connected, happier, and less alone. Whether it’s setting regular date nights with your partner, making a special effort for friends’ birthdays and other special occasions, or picking up the phone and calling your parents, you’ll feel better for making the effort.
Get Organised: Becoming more organised in life will not only feel great, but it’ll help you accomplish all those other goals you’ve set. By using a daily planner you’ll never miss a deadline again and by decluttering your home you’ll experience more mental clarity and reduce stress.
Stop Judging People: A resolution to stop judging people is a noble goal. By focusing on people’s positives rather than their negatives, you’ll learn to be more accepting of both others and yourself.
Stress Less: Setting a resolution to stress less can be difficult and cause stress itself. Instead of worrying about changing your mindset instantly, focus on relaxing more through meditation, yoga, massage, or even a bath. Then, slowly work to view things in a positive light rather than a negative one.
Learn a New Language: Learning a new language is a great way to exercise your brain and immerse yourself in another culture. Whether you sign up for a local class or learn online, you’re sure to find the challenge rewarding.
Get a Better Job: Getting a better job is often atop many New Year’s resolution lists. If it’s on yours, create a clear idea of what a better job means to you and how you can achieve it. You may need to get a mentor for insightful advice or it may be time to take the plunge and start your own business.
Be More Adventurous: If you felt like this year was a little dull, you may have resolved to be more adventurous in the new one. Start by saying yes to more things and trying things you’d normally avoid and you’ll soon be living life to the fullest.
Watch Less TV: If Netflix had you glued to the TV all year long, you may be feeling a little disappointed with yourself. By setting a resolution to spend less time on the couch, you’ll make sure next year is one to be proud of with plenty of accomplishments.
Become More Cultured: If you’ve ever been stuck in a conversation about art and not been able to contribute a thing, then now it’s time to get more cultured. By becoming a member at your local museum or gallery, attending the ballet, or catching a play, you’ll have plenty to say in your next cultural convo.
Be Greener: Setting a resolution to be “greener” is the perfect way to help the environment and feel good about yourself. Be sure to set clear goals, however, such as recycling wherever possible, buying sustainable items, changing diet or riding to work instead of driving.
Stop Procrastinating: There’s no better time than the beginning of a new year to stop procrastinating. For each task that you want to accomplish, set yourself a realistic timeline with regular checkpoints. Once you’ve completed the task, give yourself a little reward for all your hard work.
Be More Selfless: Being more selfless is a fantastic resolution for the New Year. By donating your time or money, working to help others succeed, making a special effort to help a friend in need, or going out of your way to be kind to a stranger, you’ll do your part to make the world a better place.
Fall in Love: Falling in love is a tricky resolution to achieve. As it’s often out of your control, it can be better to focus on self-improvement to better your chances of attracting a partner rather than searching for love itself. That being said, you won’t meet anyone sitting on the couch watching TV, so be sure to put yourself out there.
Get More Sleep: To get more sleep is a goal on many of our lists. Going hand-in-hand with endeavours to live healthier, getting more sleep will leave you in better shape physically and mentally. Try setting an early bedtime and getting up earlier to achieve this resolution.
Focus on a Passion, Not the Way You Look: Influencer Mik Zazon, who’s on a mission to “normalize normal bodies,” tells Parade, “… I want to inform readers that resolutions are in fact NOT an invitation to start a diet or a workout plan but a beautiful reminder that a new year can bring new life to our passions.”
Work out to feel good, not be thinner: Instead of obsessing over the scale, obsess over how amazing you feel since you started being more active. Numbers don’t mean much.
Stop gossiping: Don’t be that person. Spread positivity.
Give one compliment a day: You never know—it just might make that person feel a whole lot better.
Go a whole day without checking your email: Nobody’s going to die. It can wait until tomorrow.
Do Random Acts of Kindness: Norbert, the famous therapy dog, reminds us that anyone can be kind, and it costs you nothing.
Read a book a month: Haven’t you heard? Reading is good for your brain, it can reduce stress, and it can improve your memory and concentration.
Go someplace you’ve never been: Step outside of your comfort zone and do something daring. It’s good for the soul and forces you to learn new things.
Clear out the clutter: Clutter is literally bad for your health. Research says it stresses you out. Make 2020 the year of organization and cleanliness.
Turn off your phone one night a week: You’re sleeping anyway. You don’t need it!
Reduce your waste: Some research says that the average American produces over 2,000 pounds of trash every year. Gross. Reduce your waste by ditching paper towels in favor of rags you cut up from old towels and clothes. Another easy switch is reusable grocery bags. It makes a difference!
Volunteer: Not only is volunteering good for your own mental and physical health, but you’re doing something kind and selfless for others.
Travel on a small budget: “Traveling on a budget is all about flexibility and being willing to sacrifice a bit of comfort and luxury in favor of seeing the world and the life-changing experiences that travel comes with,” says Eli Solidum, The Partying Traveler. “A lot of people have the idea that travel needs to be luxurious and holidays need to be expensive for them to be fun. My experience over the last three years of budget backpacking says otherwise.”
Write down one thing you’re grateful for every night: End the night with gratitude and you’ll feel better when you lay your head down on your pillow.
Drink more water: You’ve probably heard that your body needs it. 75 percent of us are chronically dehydrated. Drink up!
Take some of your paychecks and put it in savings or investment: Even just a small percentage can really add up down the line. Plan for the future and don’t be silly with your money.
Stop multi-tasking; Multi-tasking can lead to memory problems, it reduces our brains’ grey matter, it hurts productivity and efficiency, and it can even increase stress, anxiety, and depression. Focus on one thing at a time.
Talk to yourself with kindness: We aim to be nice to others but then criticize ourselves relentlessly. Stop! Think nicer things about yourself.
Walk to a coworker’s office instead of emailing them: We sit entirely too much, and the Mayo Clinic says sitting can be as deadly as smoking and obesity. Not good.
Don’t buy things you don’t need: Bad habit. We love to spend money even if it’s for no good reason. Don’t need it? Don’t buy it.
Keep a journal: The University of Rochester Medical Center says that journaling can help battle anxiety, stress, and depression. Even if you write only a few sentences, you can reap the benefits.
Clean out your car: It’s so easy for it to become trashed, especially if you drive a lot. Spot clean as you go so that your ride is always looking sharp.
Put your bills on autopay: If this won’t put you under any financial stress, do it! It’s one less thing you have to think about and you’ll never pay late fees again. Win-win.
Take the stairs: It’s good for your caboose.
Go to the dentist when you’re supposed to: Your oral health can actually have an impact on things that are happening in other parts of your body, like your heart and lungs.
Be kind on social media: “I think everyone who uses social media should strive to empathize more with strangers and respond to others on the internet with kindness,” says Julia, also known as itsblitzzz. “Don’t let hate or bullying be motivation for interacting on social platforms.”
Let go of grudges: Wouldn’t it be nice to start 2020 with a clean slate? Leave hate behind. Anger is so 2019.
Stay in touch with the people who matter: Even a quick call, text, or email can make a world of difference.
Try a totally new restaurant: Go on. Be adventurous. Get that strange sushi roll or try the Indian restaurant that just opened up down the street.
Join a club or Meetup: Make new friends. See new people. Do new stuff. Let yourself blossom in 2020.
Travel somewhere without posting about it on social media: “No status updates, no photos… just go on vacation and not tell anyone,” says travel writer Reannon Muth. “That might seem silly but in a world where ‘it didn’t happen unless you post it about it on Instagram,’ it can be a challenge to resist the temptation to post that sunset beach photo or poolside cocktail selfie.”
Bring a plant into your home: They might help reduce your stress and improve your productivity.
Sanitize your personal belongings: Cell phones might be the dirtiest things we touch all day, with 25,127 bacteria per square inch. Nasty.
Start one new hobby: Bonus points if it’s something you feel like you’re not good at.
Buy less plastic: It’s polluting our oceans, destroying the earth, and hurting animals. Be more aware of what you’re buying.
Send handwritten letters: Nobody does this anymore, and it’s such a thoughtful, genuine gesture. Make somebody’s day!
Donate clothes you never wear: We tend to hang onto stuff “just in case.” If you haven’t worn it in a year, give someone else the chance to.
Pay off your credit card every month: And if something is so expensive, you think that you won’t be able to? Don’t buy it.
Avoid people who complain a lot: It doesn’t matter how positive a person you are. Negativity spreads, and it will impact you. And on a similar note…
Remove negativity or anything that makes you feel lousy: Even things like super sad movies or news sources that just upset you.
Travel somewhere with no map: “I’d also recommend going on a road trip without using Apple or Google maps. No GPS. Just start driving and see where it takes you,” says Muth. “You’ll never know what sort of fun and exciting adventure you’ll end up on as a result.”
Wear sunscreen: The sun can do damage even when you’re driving in the car. Make SPF your new best friend.
Cook more: It’s therapeutic, and you’ll probably end up with something pretty darn delicious.
Get a Real Haircut: Some of us are so attached to our hair — literally and figuratively. Chop off a few inches. You might feel like a new person.
Do Something That Scares You: Whether it’s skydiving or even just singing karaoke at a crowded bar, in 2020, practice a little bravery.
Make Your Bed Every Morning: Making your bed helps you accomplish something first thing in the morning and thus starts your day with success.
Stay on Top of Your Inbox: Is the number of unread messages creeping up on you? Stay on top of it and aim to clear your inbox out throughout the week.
Try Guided Meditation: Meditation offers a whole host of science-based benefits, including reduced stress and anxiety and improved memory and attention span. Try an app like Headspace.
Stretch It Out: We spend so much time sitting and staring at our phones, all hunched over. Loosen up those tight muscles with even just five minutes of stretching each day.
Craft Something Yourself: Even if you’re not the most artsy, DIY-type of person, the satisfaction you get from making something with your own hands is undeniable. It can be as small as a candle or as big as a coffee table.
Go to Bed Happy Each Night: “Never go to bed angry.” It’s a cliche, but it’s true. Aim to start and end each day with happiness and gratitude.
Spot Clean as You Go: Overwhelmed by a filthy house you have to clean from top to bottom each weekend? Simple solution: Clean as you go. Wash dirty dishes after each meal and wipe down toilets and countertops throughout the week. Easy peasy.
Pay it Forward: Did someone do something nice for you recently? 2020 is a great time to do something nice for another. Maybe you’ll pay for someone’s coffee in the Starbucks drive-thru or buy a meal for a homeless person. Receive good things, and spread them, too.
Talk Less, Listen More: Good things happen and you learn and notice so much when you spend more time listening.
Whatever Your Goals Are, Write Them Down: People who write down their goals are 42 percent more likely to achieve them. Whatever you want in 2020, commit it to paper.
Drink enough water: This may be one of the most common New Year’s resolution ideas. But, that doesn’t make it a bad one! We could all use a little more water in our daily lives. You can keep track of your water intake with an app, journal (free printable) or a marked water bottle.
Move more, sit less: Between desk jobs and long commutes, I think we’re all guilty of sitting too much. And it turns out that sitting is the new smoking (it’s terrible for your health!). So: Make it a goal to start daily walks, bike rides or running. Just something to get you up and moving a little more often!
Make plans to explore & travel: Take camping trips, visit the next town over, or go to National Parks. There are 5 opportunities in 2020 to visit National Parks for free! Whatever you do, just shake up your usual routine.
Prioritize eco-friendly choices: Making a positive impact in the world might feel futile as an average person. Little decisions add up as a whole, though. Voting with your wallet is an important step you can take towards being more eco-friendly.
Volunteer more often: There a lot of mores on this New Year’s resolutions list, huh? Well, that’s because the goal of self-improvement is to enrich our lives, so we have to add MORE to it! And volunteering time to help improve your community is a great way to give back. After all: You can never go wrong with charity work.
Adopt an attitude of gratitude: The simple act of giving thanks has scientifically proven benefits. Gratitude is a small perspective shift, but it can significantly change your life.
Send handwritten letters: Older folks, like grandparents & aunts/uncles, LOVE getting snail mail. Brighten a relative’s day and get in touch with your offline self by sending a few handwritten letters this upcoming year. And: Did you know that there are services (like Handwrytten) that handwrite letters/cards for you? Pretty neat to know if you’re ever running short on time or you just don’t love your own handwriting.
Spend 5 minutes a day cleaning: Cleaning just a few minutes each day will keep small messes from snowballing into a bigger problem. Or: Maybe some areas are already looking like a disaster zone. The 5-minute technique will make dealing with it feel more manageable.
Call mom/siblings/grandparents more: Be the one who makes the first move! A phone call is always more personal than a text or email. And people close to you, such as your mom, really appreciate hearing from you. It’s only because they love you sooooo much.
Pick a time to wake up & stick to it: It’ll be difficult at first with your warm, comfy bed calling to you. But in the long run, waking up at the same time will help you get better sleep. Which in turn, is great for your health!
Develop a skincare routine: Tire of never being able to predict when your skin is going to be irritated and when it’s going to be clear? Or maybe you just want to up your game? Make 2020 the year you get serious about your skincare! This guide is a great place to start. It’s super helpful for when you have no idea where to begin.
Live simply, consume less: You don’t have to go whole hog with a minimalist lifestyle, but try being a little more conscious of your spending decisions. You’ll end up saving money and decreasing junk clutter in your life. Win-win!
Be consistent with meal times: New research has revealed that breakfast is not the most important meal of the day. In fact, it’s better to skip it altogether when it comes to weight loss. If you want to give your metabolism a boost: Develop regular eating patterns. Several studies (1, 2, 3) have found evidence that irregular meal frequency is linked to negative consequences. Eating irregularly (i.e. snacking at random times) can send confusing signals to your body. Consistency helps your digestive system know what to expect. Which in turn, helps it functions better.
Perfect one recipe: I’m sure you can make scrambled eggs. But can you make perfect scrambled eggs? Pick a recipe you love and truly master it. Get familiar with it so that you can remember every step by heart.
Turn on music instead of the TV: I like having white noise in the background when I’m doing stuff. Music is a nice alternative to flipping on a show. To me, it’s more motivating and way less distracting. Plus: There are always better things to be doing than watching TV!
Remember your goals and the big picture: It’d be a shame if all the New Year’s resolution planning you did went to waste. So: Be sure to write down your goals and keep them somewhere where you’ll remember to do them. Like in a planner!
Set a monthly budget: The first step to taking control of your finances is evaluating where you are. And: Reexamining your budget (at least monthly) is the key to long term budgeting success. Give it a shot with a free budget template.
Try something new: This idea is pretty open-ended: You could try:  yoga, baking, DIY projects, meditation or art classes. The list goes on and on!
Take breaks more often: The Pomodoro technique is a productivity hack that really works. 
Floss every day: Your dentist (and teeth) will love you for it!
Practice intentional breathing: Intentional breathing is the quickest way to recalibrate the nervous system. It’s a simple but powerful tool for reducing stress. Studies (1, 2) also suggest that breath control has other health benefits.
Ditch one bad habit: It could be nail-biting, smoking, eating out of boredom, etc. Just pick one bad habit that’s dragging you down and work on eliminating it from your life. You can’t expect perfection overnight, but with consistency, you’re sure to achieve your goal.
Create a bedtime routine: This circles back to having a set time for waking up every day! As easy as it is to get sucked into playing with your phone all night, it’s been shown to have negative effects on your health.
Get in touch with your creative side: Paint, draw, read, dance – do things that inspire you! Get back in touch with your creative side in the upcoming year.
Make time for self-care: Out of all of the New Year’s resolution ideas, this one should be a priority! So: Do something nice for yourself once a week. It could be making time to read your favorite book, enjoying a long bath, or treating yourself to a manicure. Pick something that recharges your batteries BIG time.
Embrace spontaneity: Challenge the idea of what kind of person you are. Be open to impromptu decisions! Of course: You don’t have to say “yes”, to every spur of the moment opportunity. But do try to go with the flow when you can.
Go Skydiving: …because, why not do it at least once? Life is short and it’s not as expensive as you may think! Prices start around $120.
Use to-do lists: Start making use of to-do lists on the daily and you’ll be amazed at how much you can accomplish.
Clean out your inbox: Start the year right with a fresh email inbox! Instead of just deleting emails you don’t read, unsubscribe to them. Now they won’t be clogging your inbox all the time.
Get rid of underutilized subscriptions: While you’re decluttering: You might as well take a look at your subscriptions. Evaluate which ones you get the most use out of and which ones can go on the chopping block.
Take a 24-hour break from social media every month: You know it’s good for you, you just have to make yourself do it.
Complete a no-spend month: A no-spend month is a real test for your self-control. It’s a great way to “reset” your relationship with money, too.
Slow down while eating and savor each bite: Live in the moment, live in the now! As a bonus: Slow eaters are 42% less likely to be overweight or obese. Food for thought (bad pun intended).
Take time to appreciate your accomplishments: A lot of modern-day life is go, go, go. Once one thing is finished, it’s on to the next. Break the status quo and take a little time to appreciate yourself. Give yourself a pat on the back next time you finish a task because you did good!
Make coffee at home more often to save money: It turns out that: Crafting cold brew coffee is surprisingly simple! I personally use this cold brew coffee maker, which makes it even easier. But: Don’t forget to treat yourself to a special coffee occasionally, too.
Start a dream journal: I think that dreams are SO interesting. The details fade almost immediately, though. Use a dream journal to capture the weird and wacky recesses of your mind. It’ll be so fun to read the entries later!
Clean out your closet: Seriously! How much clothing do you have hanging up in there that you never wear? Take some time this year to go through your belongs and declutter your life. What you end up not keeping you can donate, or even sell for some cash.
Work on creating a more balanced life: Striving for more balance in your life is an excellent goal.
Try going Meatless on Mondays: Reduce your meat consumption a little and help the planet out.
Reduce your debt: Getting out of debt is a good New Year’s resolution, but that might not be possible. However, one thing you can certainly do is reduce your total debt.
Go to a local, live music concert: I think that: New Year goals should be a mix of self-improvement and fun goals. So have as much fun as you can this year! Drop-in on local shows and see what’s happening.
Swap soda or other sugary drinks for tea: Research has shown that sugar causes inflammation in the body. So: Cutting down your intake of sugar (and other mysterious ingredients) is sure to have a positive effect on your life.
Try a fitness class: Are you more motivated by group sports than solo ones? Give water aerobics, spinning, Pilates, hip-hop or belly dancing a try to get your sweat on!
Learn a new language: If you have aspirations to travel the world someday, learning a new language will be super useful. There are even free apps (like Duolingo) that can teach you.
Do a little act of kindness weekly: A little kindness goes a long way. Some small acts of kindness ideas: Pay for the person behind you in the drive-thru. Pay for an expired parking meter. Pick up a piece of trash on the ground
Keep a notepad next to your bed for ideas that come to you at night: I always feel like my best ideas come to me at night. So this year I plan to keep a pen and some paper on my nightstand. I’m not letting those good ideas get away anymore.
Start your morning with a stretching routine: You’re not getting any younger, and you’re gonna want to preserve the mobility you have now for as long as possible. That’s why: Adding a stretching routine to your day is in your best interest. I like to do mine in the morning, but really any time of day will work.
Go through your music library: Audit your music library and rediscover songs you forgot about. And clear out the songs you can’t stand anymore because you listened to them way too many times.
Find a workout buddy: Workouts are better with friends! Plus: They can give you the little extra motivation needed to really push yourself at the gym.
Practice the “Do-It-Now” rule: Is procrastination something you struggle with? Try this: If something will take you 10 minutes or less to accomplish – take care of it right away. The next time you encounter a small task, think “do it now”.
Keep a jar of things you are grateful for during the year: I love this New Year’s resolution idea! It’ll be nice to pull out your gratitude jar during Thanksgiving and reflect on the year.
Check out your local farmers/flea market: Get out into your local community and see what it’s got to offer. Adding locally grown fruits and veggies to your plate is sure to give you the warm fuzzies inside. For more than one reason!
Record 1 second of your life every day: Record 1 second everyday for an epic movie of your life.
Double the time you spend outside: Did you know that 42% of Americans are vitamin D deficit? You can up your own vitamin D just by spending 20-30 minutes a day in direct sunlight. It’s as simple as walking your dog or going for a walk/hike.
Wear sunscreen daily, even when it’s cloudy: Since you’ll be spending more time outside it’s important to protect your skin. Because it turns out that: Clouds don’t filter out UV rays, and you’re actually more at risk for skin damage on cloudy days. 
Put a kit of essentials in your car: With the California wildfires in mind… It’s never a bad idea to have a bag of essentials in your car, in case you need to leave NOW. Think things like: Jumper cables, non-perishable snacks, a spare phone charger, a blanket, band-aids, sunscreen, etc.
Deep clean your keyboard: Keyboards can be really nasty under the keys.Be sure to give yours a deep cleaning to get out all of the crumbs (and other things) stuck inside there. And if it’s been a while, I’m sure you’ll be amazed (and disgusted) by what you find.
Organize your photos: Organizing your photos is another great idea on this list of New Year’s resolutions. It’ll only make locating your favorite memories easier. Delete duplicate pictures, and put them into folders! Make them quick to search for.
Delete unused apps on your phone: Spring clean and organize everything in your life! Getting rid of unused apps will probably help your phone run a little smoother, too.
Put your phone away an hour before bed: Creating better sleeping habits is a process. Electronics can disrupt your body’s natural circadian rhythm. Opt for reading a book instead of scrolling through social media before bed.
Watch a few documentaries: Documentaries are a great way to learn new information while being entertained. Expand your horizons by watching a few documentaries in 2020.
Start a recipe box or journal: Save all your favorites so you never have to wonder what you should make for dinner. It’ll also be nice to pass along to your kids in the future!
Complete one money-saving challenge: Personal growth is all about challenging yourself. So why not take on the challenge of saving money? Sacrifice a little and watch your savings grow! Find tons of money-saving challenges here.
Send thank-you cards: The Dollar Store is a great place to buy cards of any kind.
Work on lowering your daily sugar intake: Sugar is in everything these days. And the scary part is sugar causes inflammation in your body. Track how much sugar you consume in a typical day – you might be surprised by the total. Slowly swap processed food for whole foods and watch your daily sugar intake drop.
Read at least one book each month: Now is the perfect time to start working on your to-read list that’s been collecting dust for too long. There are too many good books out there to not be a reader.
Get an annual checkup: When was the last time you went to the doctor?
Put together an emergency kit: Try this easy-to-make 5-gallon bucket kit.
Balance your checkbook (debit account) daily: Don’t let your spending get out of hand and spoil your budget! But: It’s easy to stay on track when there’s an app right on your phone. I’ve been using Wismo because it’s simple and I like that. The daily reminders are pretty helpful for my forgetful self, too.
Start habit tracking: You could keep track of your eating habits by writing it down or using an app like MyFitnessPal. But habit tracking is more than just calorie counting. It’s a great idea to use a habit tracker for any good habit you want to develop. Tracking helps you stick with it in the long run!
Throw a dart on the map and go there: Everyone knows that Cabo and Maui are breathtaking getaways from an unrelenting winter freeze, but with more than 200 countries out there, how can you limit yourself to just the popular tourist traps? A luxury resort might afford you the comforts of shamelessly stuffing your face at the buffet or getting a deep tan, but it won't challenge your ideas about the world and your place in it. If you have the means and the funds, throw a dart on the map and go somewhere more off the beaten path. When you live as the locals do for a bit, you might just be surprised with what you learn about yourself, and the happiness that self-discovery brings.
Get out into nature more often: Sometimes you have to get out of your comfort zone to experience more happiness and that includes leaving your home from time to time. After all, a 2015 study published in Landscape and Urban Planning found that even just under an hour's worth of walking out in nature can make you feel happier, as well as decrease anxiety and improve memory. Go literally smell the roses.
Perform one act of kindness every day: If you're really committed to becoming a better person in 2020, make a practical resolution to work toward that goal. Nicole Black, founder of Coffee and Carpool: Raising Kind Kids, says doing something kind for someone else each day is a great way to accomplish this. Whether it's checking behind you to hold the door open for someone, moving your bag off a chair for someone to sit in, or even smiling at someone on the street, one random act of kindness each day can go a long way.
Find an everyday role model: Pick one person to admire in 2020. And, no, we're not talking about a celebrity like Beyoncé, but instead, a regular human being with whom you're actually acquainted. Maybe it's your partner, your kids, or even your next-door neighbor. If you can't find somebody to look up to without reservation, then savor small slices of several people: Maybe your colleague's work is always terrific, or your golf buddy had the guts to rebuild his swing. And then tell them—straight on, no irony—that you admire them. Respect keeps you hopeful, and being impressed by others will help you tune up your own performance.
Find someone to mentor: If you've got kids, they're practically required to think you're a stellar grown-up. Let that happen. But even if you're not a parent, once you've got a few miles on your odometer, find a young person who could benefit from the lessons you've learned along the way. January is National Mentoring Month, after all, so get involved. And remember that while your mentee will certainly benefit from your wisdom, it also does you good to feel big in someone's eyes.
Change your perception of other people: One of the easiest ways we make ourselves unhappy isn't about us at all, but instead, about how we perceive other people. This year, make an effort to cut people some slack. Life coach Matthew Ferry says to "stop holding people accountable to agreements they never made" in 2020.
Invent and host a yearly event: It doesn't matter what it is—an Iowa-Mizzou tailgate, a team 10K on Halloween—but do something. While it's great to attend events, hosting your own each year can give you an easy way to be proud of your work. And being responsible for planning and organizing an annual event is also a creative way to force yourself to become more organized over time.
Be more giving in bed: When it comes to sex, we sometimes get caught up in what could be done to pleasure ourselves and forget about focusing on our partner. However, this selfishness actually makes you more unhappy. As David Ludden, PhD, writes in Psychology Today, "pleasing your partner is half the fun." When you make an effort to meet your partner's needs (and have them try to meet yours, in return), you will have an increase in overall sexual satisfaction.
Make a new friend: As we get older, it's common to stop making new friends. For the most part, we're too busy with our families and careers to focus on the commitments involved in forging early friendships. In fact, researchers at Duke University and the University of Arizona discovered that American adults reported having approximately one fewer friend in 2004 than the same demographic had just two decades earlier. But resist the sense that your roster is full, and focus on drafting a new player this year.
And reconnect with an old friend: At the same time, as we get older, we tend to lose touch with the people back in our hometown or from college. New is good, but continuity deepens life. Reach out to someone you liked long ago and reconnect with them. They don't have to become a bestie, but it's worth your time to let them back into your life.
Connect with a loved one by phone every week: Whether it's with friends new or old, make a bigger commitment to reaching out and connecting with those in your life this year. It's easy to forget to encourage friends who are feeling low, or to celebrate loved ones' successes. Remember that it doesn't matter if you have any particular wisdom to share—reach out anyway with a phone call to someone you care about every week.
Undertake a quest: It's great if you can undertake a serious quest, like raising money for the music program at your alma mater. But if not, you can settle for a small one. Become obsessive about any goal, whether it's to climb every Colorado peak over 10,000 feet or to read every book on arctic wolves. Everyone needs a target to aim for, and calling it a "quest" will make you feel that much happier when you finally achieve it.
Spend less time on social media: Setting a New Year's resolution to stay off of Instagram is so cliché that at this point, we're sure even Mark Zuckerberg has thought about doing it. But if you truly want to ring in 2020 with less social media stress, consider using your iPhone's "screen time" feature. With this function, you can program your phone to limit your time spent on certain apps and even schedule periods when you want specific apps to be unavailable. For Android users, the FamilyTime app provides a similar service.
Think before you snap a pic: There's nothing more stressful than trying to find a photo when your phone is full of them, or not being able to snap a new one because you're out of storage. This year, photo organizer Susan Rosenbaum recommends being smarter when you snap. "Are you overwhelmed by the number of photos on your phone?" she asks. "Not all photos are meant to be taken, and those that are important in the moment can be shared online then deleted [on your phone] once they're posted. Let 2020 be your year of meaningful, memorable photo moments."
Find a shared hobby with your spouse: In 2020, make more of an effort to explore new hobbies and spend time with your significant other by finding an activity that both of you enjoying partaking in. Whether it's taking weekly cooking classes or learning a new language, this shared experience will strengthen your marital bond and allow you to expand your horizons the way you've been meaning to for years.
Invest in a business you believe in: If you've been setting money aside from every paycheck for years, now is the time to put those funds to good use. This year, find a business that you really believe in and use your discretionary funds to support whatever it is they're doing. Even if you're not business savvy, you can still make a huge difference by buying stock in your favorite eco-friendly clothing brand or affordable watchmaker—and if these companies aren't public, then just vow to buy as many of their products as possible to ensure that they're around for years to come.
Commit to making a new source of income: And if you're looking to make more money this year, commit to finding a new source of income. Tyler Sellers, CEO of Total Shape, recommends creating a dream budget for the upcoming year and accounting for how much extra money you would need. After doing that, you can decide what to do to raise those funds, whether it's freelancing, renting out a spare room, or even wrapping your car in paid advertisements.
Listen to a new song every day: With our busy lives, Zivadream founder Lynell Ross recognizes that we sometimes fall into mundane routines where we text the same people every day, watch the same TV shows, and listen to the same playlists. Change that this year. "Make a point to break out of the monotony and expand your musical horizons," Ross suggests. "Make a resolution to listen to a new song that you've never heard before every day. Music is one of the most joyful things in life, so don't be afraid to dip your toes into some new genres. It will help you discover some new beats that you otherwise never would have discovered, and you can impress your family and friends with your knowledge of music."
And try a new recipe once a month: While listening to a new song every day may be a simple task, you should also commit to expanding your culinary horizons this year. Luckily, Ross suggests this as a monthly resolution—not a daily one. "Forget the spaghetti and burgers and taco salad," she says. "Make a commitment to trying out a new recipe regularly, particularly a recipe outside your comfort zone, like Lebanese kibbeh or Turkish köfte. Your family will enjoy trying something new and different, and getting outside your comfort zone will help you grow as a chef and a person."
Participate in #The100DayProject: Maybe you don't consider yourself to be a creative person or you find yourself too busy to invest time in making a masterpiece. No matter how you're limiting yourself, shrug it off and open up to creativity this year by participating in #The100DayProject. The idea is simple: You commit to doing something consistently for 100 days and post your progress online each day. Whether it's writing a book, building a portfolio, or practicing a new skill, all you have to do is dedicate five to ten minutes to your creative side each day for 100 days. And while the official organization usually starts in April, you can begin #The100DayProject whenever it's best for you.
